Welcome back in the previous video we saw the javascript will look to the Dunder Prato property to find
methods and properties on objects now that we know more about the relationship between Dunder Prado
and the prototype property and that all objects created from a constructor function using the new keyword
have a shared prototype or three factors some code in the following example.
Here I have a function called Person which has a method on it called Say hi which is a function that
returns the string high concatenated with the name property on the keyword.
This keyword this will refer to the object created from the constructor function.
When the new keyword is used the code below will work.
But there's something quite inefficient about what we're doing.
Every time we make an object using the new keyword we have to redefine the say high function.
So if we were to make a thousand objects from the constructor function we would have to redefine the
say high function thousand times.
It would be much more efficient if there was a place where we could define a say high function once
and have it shared amongst all objects created from the person constructor.
When the new keyword is used.
Fortunately we know exactly what that object is.
It's the prototype property.
We can simply define our say high function on the person prototype and assign person that prototype
that say hi to be a function which does exactly what it was doing before.
Notice inside of here we're also using the keyword this which will refer to the object which is invoking
the Sahaj method much better.
Now it's your turn to practice create a constructor function for a vehicle.
Each object created from this constructor should have a make model and year property and each object
should also have a property called is running which should be set to false every object created from
the vehicle constructor should have a function called Turn on which changes the is running property
to True.
Every object should also have a function called turned off which changes the is running property to
False.
Finally every object created from the vehicle constructor should have a method called Haack which returns
a string EIP only if the is running property is true.
Pause the video now and see if you can complete the.
So how did you do.
Here's a solution for the previous problem.
I'm placing all of the properties that I do not want shared for each object inside of the constructor
function that includes an is running property which should be by default false.
We don't want to place properties on the prototype because each object created from the vehicle constructor
should have its own is running property however all of the functions like turn on turn off and Hunk
should be placed on the prototype.
Since we don't want to redefine them for every object we create.
That would be inefficient so will place all the functions inside of the vehicle prototype.
If you didn't get this one tried again.
This stuff takes practice in speaking of practice.
It's your turn to practice a bit using the prototype property.
Good luck and I'll see you in the next video.